
===== PAGE 1 =====
AGE 12+
2-6 PLAYERS
Questions?
U.S., Canada, Asia Paciﬁc, & Latin America 
www.wizards.com/customerservice 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
P.O. Box 707 
Renton WA  98057-0707 
U.S.A.
Tel: 1-800-324-6496 (within the U.S.) 
       1-206-624-0933 (outside the U.S.) 
U.K., Eire, & South Africa
Hasbro UK Ltd.
P.O. Box 43
Newport NP19 4YD
UK
Tel: + 800 22 427276 
Email: wizards@hasbro.co.uk
All Other European Countries
Wizards of the Coast p/a Hasbro Belgium NV/SA 
’t Hofveld 6D 
1702 Groot-Bijgaarden 
BELGIUM
Tel: +32.70.233.277 
Email: custserv@hasbro.be
Check us out on the web:
Axisandallies.com
©2004, 2008 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., P.O. Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707, U.S.A. MADE IN CHINA.
The Wizards of the Coast logo is a trademark of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. in the U.S.A. and other countries. 
Hasbro, Axis & Allies, and their logos are trademarks of HASBRO, Inc. and are used with permission. ® denotes 
Reg. U.S. Pat. & TM Ofﬁce. All rights reserved. ©2004, 2008 Hasbro. Color of parts may vary from those 
pictured. For Europe: Hasbro UK Ltd, P.O. Box 43, Newport, NP19 4YD, UK. 
Please retain company details for future reference.
30095775000001  EN
®

===== PAGE 2 =====
2
3
The word came by telephone—
Axis & Allies® was to be one of three 
games to mark the 50th 
anniversary of Avalon Hill®.
My mission was clear: 
build a game worthy of 
this anniversary from the 
ground up. I would have 
the opportunity to design a 
very special Axis & Allies
Anniversary Edition.
First and foremost, 
design and provide a 
larger game board. Next, 
include individual storage 
trays the likes of which 
had never been seen 
before. And what better 
occassion to add new 
national units like the Chinese and 
Italians? As it turned out, this was only 
the beginning of many new features.
Why not have a new starting date for 
the game? Avalon Hill brand manager 
Brian Hart and I discussed a 1939 
scenario. This idea came with many 
undesirable problems, however. The 
game would automatically be much 
longer to play. The United States 
would not participate in the game for 
the ﬁ rst three or four turns. The game 
would suffer from a rather slow and 
very predictable start. This, and several 
other issues, would prove to be too 
problematic from a game point of view.
The war did not become truly global 
until the Japanese attacked Pearl 
Harbor. We ﬁ nally decided that 
this infamous date would be our 
starting point . . . well almost. As it 
turned out, by way of some serious 
lobbying from one of my playtest 
groups, we concluded that turn one 
would include both the Japanese 
attack at Pearl Harbor as well as the 
German attack on Russia (Operation 
Barbarossa). This would really start 
the game off with a bang. 
To really make it interesting, I wanted 
to include a second scenario. The 
ﬁ rst scenario would be the 1941 
start time (the Axis attack), and the 
second would be the traditional 1942 
date (the Axis high water mark). 
Both would require different set-up 
situations. Initial playtesting quickly 
discovered that this strategy would 
yield two completely different games 
in one box and ultimately twice the 
work. I wanted to reach out to the 
Axis & Allies community for help and 
dependable feedback, and so I did.
I was fortunate enough to have the right 
playtest groups ready and willing to 
volunteer for the job. As it turned out, 
these playtesters (see game credits) 
were highly experienced veteran 
players of the game. As a consequence, 
experts from all across the United 
States and Europe were testing and 
probing for game problems. 
One important aspect of the game that 
I wanted to address was the ahistorical 
tendency for the Japanese to attack 
Russia. I did not mind if this attack 
occurred late in the game—who 
knows, if things had gone differently 
during the actual war, perhaps the 
Japanese would have attacked Russia. 
The solution I settled on was to 
add additional territories and units 
between the Japanese forces and 
Moscow. The real-world translation 
of these additional territories is the 
seemingly endless miles that exist 
between Asia and Moscow. 
At some point in the development stage 
I stumbled onto an idea . . . “National 
Objectives & Bonus Income.” Why 
not incorporate into the game the 
stated historical objectives of the real 
countries involved in the war? If a 
controlling player manages to achieve 
certain objectives, that player should 
be rewarded with bonus income! 
For example, the stated objective 
declared by Imperial Japan to the rest 
of the world was, “The Greater East 
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.” If the 
Japanese player manages to achieve 
the actual stated Japanese goals, he or 
she is rewarded with additional IPCs. 
Pursuing objectives that provide mid-
game income bonuses creates a more 
historical game pattern for all. I think 
the game now looks and feels more 
historical than ever. 
The addition of Italy as a power is 
something I have wanted to do for a 
long time. It certainly is not one of 
the major powers, but if played as a 
separately controlled power, Italy can 
be an important partner of the Axis 
alliance. It also nicely rounds off the 
numbers and makes this otherwise 
ﬁ ve-player game into a six-player 
game. Protected by Germany in the 
north, Italy can now be the dominant 
industrial power in the Mediterranean, 
the Middle East, and of course, 
Africa.
China, on the other hand, was not 
designed to be a self-standing power. 
Chinese units will continue to be 
controlled by the American player, 
but it sure looks and feels like a 
separate power.
There are also lots of other changes 
that this game brings to the table. For 
example, the submarine and transport 
rules have been considerably 
changed. Also, the basic IPC price 
structure for ships has been reduced. 
This may make for more ships on 
the board. Weapons development 
has been reworked as well. It is also 
optional in that players can elect to 
play with them or not.
Finally, after months of playtesting, 
I turned the game over to Wizards of 
the Coast®. This was not the end of 
the process. The internal Wizards’ 
design team began their work of ﬁ ne-
tuning the monster.
I am excited about this new version 
of Axis & Allies. It is indeed worthy 
of the honor of marking Avalon Hill’s 
50th anniversary. I think it will prove 
to be a fascinating new puzzle to solve. 
 —Larry 
        Harris
ANNIVERSARY EDITION DESIGNER NOTES:
Game Components ........................................................................................5
Setup ......................................................................................................................9
China Rules ......................................................................................................10
Order of Play ....................................................................................................11
 
Phase 1: Research & Development ..........................................................11
 
Phase 2: Purchase Units ...........................................................................13
 
Phase 3: Combat Move ............................................................................13
Special Combat Movement ....................................................15
 
Phase 4: Conduct Combat ........................................................................16
Strategic Bombing Raids ........................................................17
Amphibious Assaults ..............................................................17
General Combat ......................................................................18
Multinational Forces...............................................................21
 
Phase 5: Noncombat Move ......................................................................21
 
Phase 6: Mobilize New Units ..................................................................22
 
Phase 7: Collect Income ..........................................................................22
National Objectives & Bonus Income ...................................22
Winning the Game ........................................................................................24
8QLW3URÀOHV .....................................................................................................24
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Game Design: Larry Harris
Game Development: Nate Heiss
Rulebook Development: Larry Harris, Bill McQuillan, and Cal Moore
External Playtesters: Kevin Chapman, Melanie Chapman, Eric Christoff, Terry Dunn, Martin Frick, Randy Heath, Dan 
Kersey, Dr. Christian Schuh, Gregory Smorey, Craig Yope, and Alex and his Deutscher Axis & Allies Klub
Internal Playtesters: Mons Johnson, Rich Baker, Graeme Hopkins, Bill McQuillan, Cormac Russell, Mike Turian, and 
Steve Warner
Editing: Cal Moore
Art Direction: Blake Beasley
Cover Illustration: Jim Butcher
Graphic Designer: Leon Cortez
Calligraphy: Todd Gamble
Photography: Allison Shinkle and Katie Wright
Brand Management: Brian Hart
Production Management: Godot Gutierre
Collectors who lent us militaria and ﬁ rearms for packaging: Bruce Anderson, Blake Beasley, Richard Coonradt, Tom 
Coonradt, Brian Dumas, and Barry Holldorf.
Thanks to all of our project team members and the many others too numerous to mention who have contributed to this product.
CREDITS

===== PAGE 3 =====
4
5
A Note About
The Cover Art
We wanted the Axis & Allies
Anniversary Edition to stand out in 
every way possible. So we knew we 
needed to have illustrator/artist Jim 
Butcher, who created the artwork for 
the original Axis & Allies box cover, 
create the cover for this version too.
ARTIST BIO - JIM BUTCHER
Besides having done the original 
artwork for the game, Jim’s 
experience with military work 
is exceptional. After honing his 
skills at the Maryland Institute 
College of Art in 1962 where he 
majored in graphic design and 
painting, he began his art career 
with the United States Marine 
Corps in Vietnam, serving as an 
ofﬁ cial USMC combat artist. He 
focused on covering the air war 
and the personnel who worked 
with the aircraft, which at times 
took him into combat situations.
After receiving an honorable 
discharge in 1969, he continued 
his career in art, opening his 
own business and receiving 
commissions from various 
companies and government 
entities. His work includes 
commissions from British 
Aerospace, Unicolor Corp., and 
NASA, for projects such as the 
commemoration of 75 years of 
U.S. Marine Corp Aviation, a 
mural for the Tuskeegee Airman 
Museum in Detroit, Michigan, 
and numerous space-related 
events such as the Apollo Series, 
the Viking Mission, and the 
space shuttle operations.
Summary of Play
Axis & Allies can be played by up to 
six players. The game depicts a two-
sided conﬂ ict, so if you have more 
than two players, split them up into the 
Axis side and the Allies side. 
The Allies powers include the United 
States, United Kingdom, and Soviet 
Union. The Axis powers include 
Germany, Japan, and Italy. In a six-
player game, each player controls 
one world power. If fewer people 
play, some will control more than 
one power.
Each turn you take for a power, you 
choose which units to build for that 
power and whether or not to risk funds 
into research (if playing with the 
optional weapons development rules). 
Then you move your attacking units 
into hostile spaces and resolve those 
attacks using dice rolls.
After combat, you may make 
noncombat moves with your units 
that did not take part in combat that 
turn. Finally, you place the units you 
purchased at the beginning of your 
turn and then collect your income for 
the turn, including income gained from 
any newly conquered territories.
How to Win
When the Axis side or the Allies side 
collectively holds 15 victory city 
tokens at the end of a complete round 
of play, that side wins the game.
Adjusting Game Length
If you want a shorter game, 
play to 13 victory city 
tokens. If you are up for 
a longer game, play to a 
complete victory of all 18 
victory city tokens. 
If you opt for one of these 
alternatives, be sure all 
players agree to it before 
you start the game.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Game Boards:
 3 Game Boards
 1 Battle Board
Game Charts: 
 6 National Setup Charts (one for  
 each power)
 1 National Production/Research &  
 Development Chart
Markers & Tokens:
 120 National Control Markers
 22 Damaged Factory Markers
 18 Researcher Tokens
 18 Victory City Tokens
Storage: 8 Boxes Total
 6 Nationality boxes
 2 Community Boxes
Dice: 14 Total
 7 Black
 7 Red
Plastic Chips: 80 Total
 70 Gray
 10 Red
Paper Money: 90 Bills Total
 30 One IPC Bills (green)
 30 Five IPC Bills (red)
 30 Ten IPC Bills (blue)
Plastic Miniatures: 672 Total 
Common Units (Light Gray):
 24 Industrial Complexes (factories)
 24 AA Guns
USA (Green):
 25 Infantry 
 12 Artillery
 12 Tanks
 12 Fighter
 8 Bomber
 4 Battleship
 6 Aircraft Carrier
 8 Cruiser
 10 Destroyer
 10 Submarine
 10 Transport
United Kingdom (Tan):
 25 Infantry 
 10 Artillery
 10 Tanks
 12 Fighter
 8 Bomber
 4 Battleship
 4 Aircraft Carrier
 8 Cruiser
 10 Destroyer
 10 Submarine
 10 Transport
USSR (Maroon):
 25 Infantry 
 14 Artillery
 14 Tanks
 12 Fighter
 4 Bomber
 2 Battleship
 2 Aircraft Carrier
 4 Cruiser
 6 Destroyer
 6 Submarine
 6 Transport
Germany (Gray):
 25 Infantry 
 12 Artillery
 14 Tanks
 12 Fighter
 6 Bomber
 4 Battleship
 2 Aircraft Carrier
 6 Cruiser
 10 Destroyer
 12 Submarine
 8 Transport
Japan (Orange):
 25 Infantry 
 10 Artillery
 8 Tanks
 12 Fighter
 6 Bomber
 6 Battleship
 6 Aircraft Carrier
 8 Cruiser
 10 Destroyer
 10 Submarine
 10 Transport
Italy (Brown):
 20 Infantry 
 6 Artillery
 6 Tanks
 6 Fighter
 4 Bomber
 2 Battleship
 2 Aircraft Carrier
 2 Cruiser
 6 Destroyer
 6 Submarine
 4 Transport
China (Light Green):
 15 Infantry
GAME COMPONENTS

===== PAGE 4 =====
6
7
Since an ally controls 
Panama, this British 
destroyer can move 
through the canal.
The German cruiser cannot 
pass through the Suez 
Canal because Germany 
does not control Egypt.
Movement Between Spaces
Units can move between adjacent spaces (those that share a common border).
The game board wraps around horizontally. Territories and sea zones on the 
right edge of the board are adjacent to territories and sea zones on the left 
edge. (Note that sea zone 20 connects to sea zone 55; sea zone 21 connects 
to sea zone 44; and sea zone 25 connects to sea zone 43.)  The top and 
bottom edges of the board do not wrap around. 
Islands
An island is a territory located entirely inside one sea 
zone. A sea zone can contain at most one group of islands, 
which is considered one territory. It is not possible to split 
up land-based units so that they are on different islands in 
the same group. Even if the land mass is not visible on the 
game board, air units can land on islands and land-based 
troops can disembark there.
Canals
There are two canals—artiﬁ cial waterways that connect two larger 
bodies of water—on the game board. The Panama Canal 
connects the Paciﬁ c Ocean to the Atlantic Ocean, while the 
Suez Canal connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Indian 
Ocean. A canal is not considered a space, so it doesn’t 
block land movement: Land units can move freely between 
Trans-Jordan and Egypt. Panama is one territory: No land 
movement points are required to cross the canal within 
Panama.
If you want to move sea units through a canal, your side (but 
not necessarily your power) must control it at the start of 
your turn (that is, you cannot use it the turn you capture it). 
The side that controls Panama controls the Panama Canal. 
The side that controls both Egypt and Trans-Jordan controls 
the Suez Canal. If one side controls Egypt and the other controls Trans-Jordan, 
the Suez is closed to sea units.
Victory Cities
On the map are 18 victory cities, all crucial to the war effort. The selection of 
the 18 victory cities was based on historical importance of the city at the time. 
“Importance” could be measured in terms of strategic location, industrial base, 
resources, or other important strategic factors. Each city has a corresponding 
victory city token, which are exchanged as those territories are won or lost. 
Territories 
The national control symbols on the spaces on the game board show which power 
controls those spaces at the start of the game. In the 1942 game scenario, German 
and Japanese players will place some of their national control markers on top of 
some of the national control symbols presented on the map. This updates the 1941 
map to the 1942 scenario.
All other spaces are neutral, such as Turkey or Mongolia, and are not aligned 
with any power. Neutral territories are distinct in that they have neither IPC nor 
national control symbols. They represent areas that are impassable for political 
or geographic reasons. You cannot attack neutral territories, move into them, or 
move over them with air units. Neutral territories do not have income values. 
Most territories have an income value ranging from 1 to 12. This is the number 
of industrial production certiﬁ cates (IPCs) they produce each turn for their 
controller. A few territories, such as Gibraltar, have no income value. 
Each territory exists in one of three conditions: 
Friendly:  A territory with a control marker owned by you or a friendly power  
 
(one on your side). 
Hostile:  
A territory with a control marker owned by an enemy power (one on  
 
the opposing side). 
Neutral:  
A territory that has no IPC value or national control symbol and  
 
that is not controlled by any power. The neutral territories are: 
 
Northern South America, Peruvian Central, Argentina/Chile, Eire,  
 
Sweden, Switzerland, Spain, Sahara, Angola, Mozambique, Turkey,  
 
Saudia Arabia, Afganistan, Himalaya, and Mongolia. 
Game Board
The game board is a reﬂ ection of the world in 1941. It is divided into spaces by border lines. Land spaces are “territories” 
and sea spaces are “sea zones.”
GAME COMPONENTS (continued)
GAME COMPONENTS (continued)
Sea Zones
Sea zones are either friendly or 
hostile. Friendly sea zones contain 
no enemy surface warships. Hostile 
sea zones contain enemy surface 
warships. Note that the presence of 
enemy submarines and/or transports 
does not count for the purposes of 
determining whether or not a sea zone 
is hostile.

===== PAGE 5 =====
8
9
POWER 
STARTING VICTORY CITY TOKENS 
STARTING IPCS
Germany
Berlin, Paris, and Warsaw 
31
Japan
Tokyo and Shanghai 
17
Italy
Rome
10
United States 
Washington, San Francisco, Honolulu, and Manila 
40
United Kingdom 
London, Calcutta, Sydney, Hong Kong, and Ottawa 
43
Soviet Union 
Moscow, Stalingrad, and Leningrad 
30
POWER 
STARTING VICTORY CITY TOKENS 
STARTING IPCS
Germany
Berlin, Paris, and Warsaw 
31
Japan
Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Manila 
31
Italy
Rome
10
United States 
Washington, San Francisco, and Honolulu. 
38
United Kingdom 
London, Calcutta, Sydney, and Ottawa 
31
Soviet Union 
Moscow, Stalingrad, and Leningrad 
24
National Control Markers 
National control markers indicate status in the game. They mark 
conquered territories and record other information on the game’s charts.
Battle Board
The battle board is a large card with columns that list attacking 
and defending units and their combat strengths. When 
combat occurs, the players involved place their units on 
the battle board.
,QGXVWULDO3URGXFWLRQ&HUWLÀFDWHV
These certiﬁ cates (called IPCs) are the money of the game and 
represent capacity for military production.
Combat Forces 
Each power is color-coded as follows:
Green 
United States of America
Gray 
Germany
Tan 
United Kingdom
Orange 
Japan
Maroon 
Soviet Union 
 
Brown 
Italy
Light Green 
China
Two other units, antiaircraft guns and industrial complexes, are 
light gray and not color-coded to a particular power. 
These can change hands during play. 
National Production/Research & 
Development Chart 
This chart shows each power’s production level and technological 
advances. The national production chart is used to track each power’s 
national production level throughout the game. Whenever you develop 
a new technology, place one of your power’s control markers inside the 
appropriate advancement box on the research & development chart.
National Setup Charts 
These charts (one of each power) list the number and type of units to 
be placed in the corresponding power’s territories and sea zones. Each 
power’s national objectives are shown on the back of the chart.
Plastic Chips 
Use these chips to save space in overcrowded zones. Putting a gray chip 
under a unit shows that there is one additional unit of that unit type on the 
space. Putting a red chip under a unit shows that there are ﬁ ve additional 
units of that unit type on the space.
Example: A destroyer with one gray chip under it counts as two destroyers. An infantry with one gray and one red chip under it 
counts as seven infantry.
The number of stacks is not limited by the number of plastic chips available.
SETUP
1941 Scenario
The Axis players begin with 6 victory city tokens, and the Allies begin with 12.
1942 Scenario
The Axis players begin with 8 victory city tokens, and the Allies begin with 10.
Board setup for 1942 scenario: The game board reﬂ ects the 1941 scenario. If you would prefer to play the 1942 scenario, 
you will need to place some national control markers to reﬂ ect the historical situation for that year. The placement of these 
markers is indicated on the German and Japanese national setup charts for 1942. Put the markers on top of the existing 
national control symbols shown on the game board. 
s 0LACETHEGAMEBOARDINTHE 
center of the table. The Allies 
 
players should sit near its top 
 
(northern) edge, and the Axis 
 
players should sit along the 
 
bottom (southern) edge. 
s 0LACETHEBATTLEBOARDNEXTTO 
the game board, and the dice 
 
next to the battle board.
s 0LACETHENATIONALPRODUCTION 
research & development chart next  
 
to the game board. For each power  
 
you are playing, place that power’s 
 
corresponding control marker 
 
on the matching space on the 
 
chart. (It should match the total 
 
of the circled numbers in territories  
 
you control.) Choose one player 
 
to be in charge of tracking changes  
 
in national production throughout   
 
the game.
s 3EPARATETHEINDUSTRIAL 
production certiﬁ cates (IPCs) 
 
by denomination (1, 5, and 
 
10). Choose one player to be 
 
the banker and give all 
 
remaining IPCs to that player.
s %ACHPLAYERTAKESTHEVICTORY 
city tokens and IPCs that 
 
correspond to the powers 
 
that player represents and to 
 
the scenario being played 
 
(shown below), be it 1941 
 
or 1942. If one player controls 
 
multiple powers, those 
 
powers’ IPCs must be kept 
 
separate throughout the game.
s !SSIGNAPOWERORPOWERSTO 
each player. If a single player  
 
 
plays multiple powers, each  
 
of those powers needs to be on 
 
the same side (Axis or Allies). 
 
In a six-player game, Italy 
 
should have its own dedicated 
 
player. In a game with less than 
 
six players, the player who is 
 
playing Germany should also 
 
play Italy. If a player controls 
 
multiple powers, that player 
 
must keep each power’s 
 
resources separate.
s 4AKETHENATIONALSETUPCHART 
and all the control markers  
 
and plastic pieces that belong 
 
to your power. You can ﬁ nd 
 
setup and cost information for 
 
your units on the national 
 
setup chart.

===== PAGE 6 =====
10
11
China was an important power in the war, but unlike the other major powers, it was not an industrialized nation at the time. 
For this reason, it receives special treatment in the Anniversary Edition. Also, some of the normal rules apply to China in 
slightly different ways.
China and its units are controlled by the U.S. player, but for game purposes it is considered a separate power and its 
resources cannot be mixed. The U.S. player takes China’s turn at the same time as the U.S. turn but Chinese unit combat and 
movement are done separately from the U.S. forces. The U.S. player must complete the Combat Move and Conduct Combat 
phases for Chinese forces before beginning the Combat Move phase for U.S. forces, or vice versa.
Chinese territories on the game board have a Nationalist Chinese national control symbol on them. The IPC values printed on 
the Chinese territories indicate the number of IPCs an Axis player will receive when taking control of the territory.
The Chinese army represented in the game does not receive IPCs for income or use IPCs to generate new units. Instead, 
China gets one new infantry unit per turn for every two Chinese territories that are not under Axis control during the 
Purchase Units phase of the U.S. player’s turn.
The U.S. player places the new Chinese units at the same time that the new U.S. units are placed. They may be placed on 
any Chinese-controlled territories, however those units cannot be placed on any territory that already contains three or 
more units.
Chinese units have a limited range of occupation, displayed by the colored border. They can also be moved into the Japanese 
occupied territories of Kiangsu and Manchuria. China can take control of these territories and have them count toward their 
new infantry placements. Chinese units cannot be loaded onto transports.
Kwangtung is a special case. While it is not a Chinese territory and cannot be controlled by China, Chinese forces can attack 
Axis units there and occupy it, but the IPCs generated go to the United Kingdom. This is the only non-Chinese territory that 
Chinese units may occupy. 
At the beginning of the game, China has a U.S. ﬁ ghter unit located on the map. This represents the American volunteer 
group—the Flying Tigers. This ﬁ ghter is considered part of the Chinese forces for purposes of movement and combat. If it is 
destroyed, the U.S. player cannot purchase a new ﬁ ghter unit for China.
CHINA RULES
China can control 
Manchuria and 
Kiangsu.
Chinese forces can 
occupy Kwangtung, 
but they cannot 
control it.
Phase 1: Research & Development
Note: This is an optional rule—players should decide whether or not this phase 
will be included in their game. 
In this phase, you may attempt to develop improved military technology. To do 
so, you buy researchers that give you a chance for a scientiﬁ c breakthrough. Each 
researcher token will grant you one die that provides a chance for a breakthrough.
Research & Development Sequence 
1. Buy researcher tokens
2. Roll research dice
3. Roll breakthrough die
4. Mark developments 
Step 1: Buy Researcher Tokens
Each researcher token costs 5 IPCs. Buy as many as you wish, including none.
Step 2: Roll Research Dice
For each researcher you have, roll one die.
Success: If you roll at least one “6,” you have successfully made a technological 
breakthrough. Discard all your researcher tokens and continue to step 3.
Failure: If you do not roll a “6,” your research has failed. Keep all your 
researcher tokens and continue to the Purchase Units phase of the turn.
Step 3. Roll Breakthrough Die
If you rolled a “6” on any research die, choose one of the two breakthrough 
charts (next page) and roll a die to see which technological advance you get. 
You can only receive one advance each turn. If you have already received the 
same result on a previous turn, reroll until you get a new technological advance. 
Once you have received all the advances on a chart, you cannot gain any more 
advances from that chart.
Axis & Allies is played in rounds. 
One round consists of each power 
taking a turn.
The order that players take turns 
depends on the scenario:
1941 Scenario
1. Germany
2. Soviet Union
3. Japan 
4. United Kingdom
5. Italy 
6. United States
1942 Scenario
1. Japan
2. Soviet Union
3. Germany
4. United Kingdom
5. Italy
6. United States
If you control more than one power, 
keep those powers’ income and units 
separate. You can conduct operations 
for only one power at a time.
Turn Sequence
Each power’s turn consists of seven 
phases, which take place in a ﬁ xed 
sequence. You must collect income if 
you can, but all other parts of the turn 
sequence are voluntary. After each 
power ﬁ nishes a turn, play then passes 
to the next power.
1. Research & Development 
 (Optional Rule)
2. Purchase Units 
3. Combat Move 
4. Conduct Combat 
5. Noncombat Move 
6. Mobilize New Units 
7. Collect Income
At the end of the United States 
player’s turn, check for victory. If 
neither side has won, begin a new 
round of play.
ORDER OF PLAY

===== PAGE 7 =====
12
13
Air units 
can move 
through a 
hostile space 
as if it was 
friendly.
Land units 
must end their 
movement when 
they encounter 
enemy units, 
including
antiaircraft guns 
and industrial 
complexes.
Step 4: Mark Developments
If your research was successful, place one of your national control markers inside the appropriate advancement box on the 
research & development chart. Your development becomes effective immediately.
Any number of powers may develop the same technology, but powers cannot share their technology.
BREAKTHROUGH CHART 1
1. Advanced Artillery. Each of your artillery 
units can now provide greater support. One artillery 
unit can support two infantry per attack. Two 
infantry when coupled with one artillery unit each 
have an attack value of 2. 
2. Rockets. Your antiaircraft guns are now rocket 
launchers. In addition to its normal combat function, 
during the strategic bombing raid step of your 
Conduct Combat phase each turn, each of your 
antiaircraft guns can make a single rocket attack 
against an enemy industrial complex within 3 spaces 
of it. This attack does 1d6 damage to that complex. 
3. Paratroopers. Each of your bombers can act as 
a transport for up to one infantry, but it must stop in 
the ﬁ rst hostile territory it enters during a turn and 
drop off the infantry, ending its combat movement. 
The bomber may still attack during the Conduct 
Combat phase, but it cannot make a strategic 
bombing run in a turn that it transports an infantry 
unit. The infantry unit may retreat normally to a 
friendly adjacent space during combat. 
4. Increased Factory Production. Each of 
your industrial complexes can now produce two 
additional units beyond its listed IPC value. For 
example, Germany with 10 IPCs can now produce 
12 units. Also, when repairing a damaged industrial 
complex (removing damage markers), you can 
remove two damage markers at a time for the cost of 
1 IPC (half price). 
5. War Bonds. During your Collect Income phase, 
roll 1d6 and collect that many additional IPCs.
6. Mechanized Infantry. Each infantry that is 
matched up with a tank can move two spaces along 
with the tank.
BREAKTHROUGH CHART 2
1. Super Submarines. The attack value of your 
submarines is now 3 instead of 2. The defense value 
of your submarines remains at 1. 
2. Jet Fighters. The attack value of your ﬁ ghters 
is now 4 instead of 3. 
3. Improved Shipyards. Your sea units are now 
cheaper to build. Use these revised costs:
Unit
IPC cost
Battleship
17
Aircraft Carrier 
11
Cruiser
10
Destroyer 
7
Transport 
6
Submarine
5
4. Radar. Your antiaircraft gun ﬁ re now hits on a 1 
or 2 instead of just a 1.
5. Long-Range Aircraft. Your ﬁ ghters are now 
long-range ﬁ ghters, and your bombers are now 
long-range bombers. Your ﬁ ghters’ range increases 
from 4 to 6. Your bombers’ range increases from 
6 to 8.
6. Heavy Bombers. Your bombers are now heavy 
bombers. You roll two dice for each bomber when 
you attack or make a strategic bombing raid. On 
defense, your bombers still roll only a single die.
Phase 2: Purchase Units 
In this phase, you may spend IPCs for additional units to be used in future turns. All the units on your power’s national setup 
chart are available for purchase. A unit’s price in IPCs is listed in the cost column next to the unit’s name.
Each industrial complex can only produce as many new units as the IPC value indicated on the territory in which it is located. 
For example, Germany can produce 10 units per turn. 
Industrial complexes are subject to strategic bombing raids and rockets. For each damage marker an industrial complex has 
under it during the Mobilize New Units phase, it can produce one less unit.
Purchase Units Sequence 
1. Order units 
2. Pay for units & repairs
3. Place units in mobilization zone 
Step 1: Order Units 
Select all the units you wish to buy. You may buy as many units as you can afford, regardless of which units you started the 
game with. If a unit type is not available (because those units are all in play), you can still purchase additional units of that type, 
however all of the players must agree on the method of representation (markers, coins, slips of paper, etc.) for those units.
Step 2. Pay for Units & Repairs
Pay IPCs to the bank equal to the total cost of the purchased units.
You can also pay to remove damage markers from under industrial complexes that have 
been damaged. Each damage marker costs 1 IPC to remove.
Step 3: Place Units in Mobilization Zone 
Place the purchased units in the mobilization zone on the game board (located in the 
South Atlantic Ocean). You cannot use these units right away, but you will deploy 
them later in the turn. In contrast, purchased repairs (removal of damage markers) to 
industrial complexes take effect immediately.
Phase 3: Combat Move
Move as many of your units into as many hostile territories and hostile sea zones as you 
wish. Movement into a hostile territory counts as combat movement, whether that territory is occupied or not. You can move 
into a single hostile space from different spaces, as long as each moving unit can reach that space with a legal move.
You may move units through friendly spaces en route to hostile spaces during this phase. However, units cannot end their 
move in friendly spaces during the Combat Move phase except in four instances:
s 4ANKSTHATHAVEBLITZEDTHROUGHANUNOCCUPIEDHOSTILESPACE
s 3EAUNITSTHATWILLBEPARTICIPATINGINANAMPHIBIOUSASSAULTFROMANUNCONTESTEDSEAZONEs 3EAUNITSMOVINGFROMAHOSTILESEAZONETOESCAPECOMBATASTHEIRCOMBATMOVEAND
s 3EAUNITSMOVINGINTOASEAZONECONTAININGONLYENEMYSUBMARINESANDORTRANSPORTSINORDERTOATTACKTHOSEUNITS
If you move all of your units out of a space you control, you still retain control of that space until the enemy moves into and 

===== PAGE 8 =====
14
15
In this example, a Japanese destroyer is 
present, so the submarines have to stop 
their movement and attack.
7KHÀJKWHUPRYHV
independently of the 
carrier to attack a 
territory this turn. The 
carrier moves to attack 
a transport, but is 
still in a space where 
WKHÀJKWHUFDQODQG
during the Noncombat 
Move phase.
Sea units other than submarines must end their movement when they 
encounter enemy units. The destroyer must stop in this zone, however, the 
submarine can pass through safely since the enemy unit is not a destroyer.
Units cannot 
move into 
neutral
territories.
Amphibious assault movement occurs during the Combat Move phase. After your 
transport loads units, your battleship must destroy the enemy destroyer in sea combat 
LQRUGHUWRFOHDUWKHKRVWLOHVHD]RQHVRWKDWWKHWUDQVSRUWFDQRIÁRDGLQWR)UDQFH
If there had been only defending submarines and/or transports, the attacking U.S. 
player could have ignored those units, or could have conducted sea combat.
Submarines can move through or into a hostile sea zone 
containing enemy warships without attacking.
Moving transports and any accompanying units into a sea 
zone from which you plan to make an amphibious assault 
counts as a combat move, even if there are no defending 
surface warships there.
During the Conduct Combat phase, you can only launch 
amphibious assaults that you announced during this phase. 
(See Conduct Combat: Amphibious Assaults, pg. 17.)
Special Combat Movement
A number of units can make special moves during this 
phase. These are described in detail below. (For complete 
information on each combat unit’s capabilities, see Unit 
Proﬁ les, pg. 24.)   
Aircraft Carriers 
Any ﬁ ghters belonging to an aircraft carrier launch before 
the carrier moves and move independently of the carrier. 
These ﬁ ghters can make a combat move from the carrier’s 
sea zone, or they can remain in the sea zone until the Noncombat 
Move phase. 
Guest ﬁ ghters belonging to a friendly power on board another 
power’s carrier must remain on board as cargo if the carrier moves 
in combat. They cannot take part in combat and are destroyed if the 
carrier is destroyed. 
Whether it moves during the Combat Move or Noncombat Move 
phase, an aircraft carrier allows friendly ﬁ ghters to land on it in the 
sea zone where it ﬁ nishes its move. 
Submarines
Submarines are capable of moving undetected due to 
their ability to submerge. For this reason, they have 
special movement rules. A submarine may move 
through or into a sea zone containing enemy warships 
during either the Combat Move or Noncombat Move 
phase. Unlike other sea units, a submarine may end its 
noncombat movement in a hostile sea zone. However, 
if a submarine enters a sea zone containing an enemy 
destroyer, its movement ends immediately.
This ability of submarines to avoid detection 
also allows enemy ships to ignore their 
presence. Any sea zone that contains 
only enemy submarines does not stop the 
movement of a sea unit. Sea units ending 
their combat movement in a sea zone 
containing only enemy submarines may 
choose to attack them or not. Sea units may 
also end their noncombat movement in a sea 
zone containing only enemy submarines. 
controls it (the space remains in control of the power that controlled it at the start of 
the turn).
Units cannot move into or through neutral territories. 
Units from the same side can freely share 
territories, sea zones, and space on aircraft 
carriers and transports with one another. 
These shared events must be agreed upon 
by both powers.  
All combat movement is considered to take 
place at the same time: Thus, you cannot 
move a unit, then conduct combat, then 
move that unit again during this phase. 
You cannot move additional units into an 
embattled space once an attack has begun. 
A land or sea unit may move a number of spaces up to its move value. Most units must stop when they enter a hostile space. 
Thus, a unit with a move value of 2 could move into a friendly space and then a hostile space, or just into a hostile space.
An enemy submarine and/or transport does not block any of your unit’s movement, nor does it prevent loading or ofﬂ oading 
in that sea zone. You are not required to attack an enemy submarine or transport that shares a sea zone with you if that sea 
zone contains only enemy submarines and/or transports.
Sea Units Starting in Hostile Sea Zones
At the beginning of the Combat Move phase, you may already have sea units in spaces containing enemy units that were 
there at the start of your turn. For example, an enemy may have built new sea units in a sea zone where you have ships. When 
your turn comes around again, you are sharing a sea zone with enemy forces.
If you are sharing a sea zone with enemy surface warships (not submarines and/or transports), this situation requires you to 
do one of the following:
s 2EMAININTHESEAZONEANDCONDUCTCOMBAT
s ,EAVETHESEAZONELOADUNITSIFDESIREDANDCONDUCTCOMBATELSEWHERE
s ,EAVETHESEAZONETOLOADUNITSANDRETURNTOTHESAMESEAZONETOCONDUCTCOMBATOR
s ,EAVETHESEAZONEANDCONDUCTNOCOMBAT
Once these sea units have moved and/or participated in combat, they cannot move or participate in the Noncombat Move 
phase of the turn. You cannot load units while in the original contested sea zone.
Air Units
An air unit that moves in this phase must reserve part of its move value for the Noncombat Move phase, at which point it 
must return to a safe landing spot using its remaining move.
An air unit’s movement in any complete turn is limited to its total move value. Thus, a bomber with a normal move value of 
6 cannot move six spaces to get to a hostile space. It must save at least one movement point to get to a neighboring friendly 
territory where it can land. A ﬁ ghter can move its full four spaces to attack instead of saving movement, but only if a carrier 
could be there by the conclusion of the Mobilize New Units phase. (See Unit Proﬁ les: Air Units, pg. 26.) 
Air units attacking territories with antiaircraft guns will be ﬁ red upon. (See Unit Proﬁ les: Antiaircraft Guns, pg. 25.)
Amphibious Assaults 
If you want to make any amphibious 
assaults during the Conduct Combat 
phase, you announce your intent 
to do so during this phase. An 
amphibious assault takes place when 
you attack a coastal territory from a 
non-hostile sea zone by ofﬂ oading 
land units from transports into that 
target territory (or make a joint 
attack with both seaborne units that 
are ofﬂ oading and other units). 

===== PAGE 9 =====
16
17
You can blitz a tank through two territories if the 
ÀUVWLVKRVWLOHEXWXQRFFXSLHG5HPHPEHUWRSODFH
\RXUFRQWUROPDUNHULQWKHÀUVWWHUULWRU\
You must stop the tank’s movement when it 
encounters any enemy units, including antiaircraft 
guns and industrial complexes.
When the bombers make a raid against the 
industrial complex, the antiaircraft gun in 
that territory makes an attack against each 
bomber doing so. A roll of 1 destroys the 
bomber on the left. The surviving bomber 
then makes an attack against the industrial 
complex, getting a 3 on the roll for 3 damage.
After a successful sea 
combat, the U.S. 
WUDQVSRUWRIÁRDGVDWDQN
and infantry against the 
one German infantry. 
At this point, the units 
move to the battle board 
to see who wins the 
combat. The tank has an 
attack value of 3, and the 
attacking infantry has an 
attack value  of 1, while 
the defending infantry’s 
defense value is 2.
1. Strategic Bombing Raids
During this step, you may bomb the enemy’s industrial complexes with your 
bombers. A strategic bombing raid is an economic attack. The attacking bombers 
will cause a number of points of damage to the target complexes equal to the 
total rolled on the dice used for the attack.
After resolving any antiaircraft ﬁ re (see Unit Proﬁ les: Antiaircraft Guns, pg. 
25), surviving bombers each roll one die (or two dice for heavy bombers). The 
total rolled on the dice is the number of damage markers that are placed under 
the attacked industrial complex. An industrial complex cannot receive more total 
damage than twice the IPC value of the territory on which it is located. Any 
excess damage is not applied.
A bomber that performed a strategic bombing raid cannot participate in any other 
combat this turn and must return to a friendly territory during the Noncombat 
Move phase.
2. Amphibious Assaults
During this step you will resolve each 
amphibious assault you announced during 
the Combat Move phase. If you did not 
announce an amphibious assault, go to 
General Combat (see pg. 18).
Amphibious Assault Sequence
1. Sea combat
2. Battleship & cruiser bombardment
3. Land combat
Step 1. Sea Combat: If there are 
defending warships, sea combat must 
occur. If there are only defending 
submarines and/or transports, the attacker 
may choose to ignore those units or conduct sea combat.
If sea combat occurs, all attacking sea units must participate in the battle. Conduct the sea combat using the rules for 
General Combat (see pg. 18), then go to step 3 (land combat). 
If no sea combat occurs, go to step 2 (bombardment).
Step 2. Battleship & Cruiser Bombardment: If there was NOT a combat in the sea zone from which you are ofﬂ oading 
units from transports, any accompanying battleships and cruisers may bombard the coastal territory being attacked. The 
number of ships that can make bombardment attacks is limited to one ship per land unit being ofﬂ oaded from the transports 
in that coastal territory. Destroying transports counts as a combat.
Roll one die for each battleship and cruiser. Battleships hit on a “4” or less, and cruisers hit on a “3” or less (their attack 
numbers). For each hit, the defender moves a defending unit to the casualty zone of the battle board (used for land combat, 
below). These casualties will be able to defend during the land combat step before they are eliminated. 
Each battleship or cruiser can only bombard one coastal territory per turn.
Step 3. Land Combat: If the sea zone has been cleared of all defending enemy warships except submarines and transports, 
and the attacker still has land units committed to the coastal territory, move all attacking and defending units to the battle 
board and conduct combat using the general combat rules (on the next page). Remember to put casualties from bombardment 
(if any) in the casualty zone.
Attacking land units can come from the ocean (seaborne), and they can come from neighboring territories that are adjacent to 
the attacked territory. Any land units ofﬂ oading from a single transport can only be ofﬂ oaded into a single hostile territory.
If no land units (carried as cargo) survived the sea combat, or if the attacking sea units withdrew from the sea combat, then 
any other units that were designated to participate in the land attack (including air units) must still conduct one round of land 
combat in a regular attack on the intended hostile territory before they can retreat.
Tanks and Blitzing 
A tank can “blitz” by moving through an unoccupied hostile territory as the ﬁ rst part of a move that can end in a friendly 
or hostile territory. The complete move must occur during the Combat Move phase. The tank establishes control of the ﬁ rst 
territory (place one of your control markers there) before it moves to the next. 
Remember to adjust the national production levels as you blitz. A tank that encounters enemy units in the ﬁ rst territory it 
enters must stop there, even if the unit is an antiaircraft gun or an industrial complex. 
Transports 
If a transport encounters hostile surface warships (not enemy submarines and/or transports) AFTER it begins to move (not 
counting the sea zone it started in), its movement for that turn ends, and it must stop there and conduct sea combat.
A transport may load units while in any friendly sea zone along its route, including the sea zone it started in. If a transport 
loads land units during the Combat Move phase, it must ofﬂ oad those units to attack a hostile territory as part of an 
amphibious assault during the Conduct Combat phase or it must retreat during sea combat. A transport that is part of an 
amphibious assault must end its movement in a friendly sea zone (or one that will become friendly as a result of sea combat) 
from which it can conduct the assault. 
Any land units aboard a transport are considered cargo until they ofﬂ oad. Cargo cannot take part in sea combat and is 
destroyed if the transport is destroyed. 
Any units can pass through a sea zone containing only transports during the Combat Move phase. However, if a warship 
chooses to sink an unescorted transport, that warship must end its move in that sea zone.
Phase 4: Conduct Combat
In this phase, you conduct combat against opposing units using the following sequence:
Combat Sequence
1. Strategic bombing raids
2. Amphibious assaults
3. General combat 
A number of units have special rules that modify or overwrite the combat rules in this section. See Unit Proﬁ les, pg. 24, for 
combat rules associated with each type of unit.
At no time may an Allies power attack another Allies power, or an Axis power attack another Axis power.

===== PAGE 10 =====
18
19
The attacking units come from two territories. All units are moved to the battle board. 
$IWHUWKHDWWDFNLQJDQGGHIHQGLQJXQLWVÀUHDQGUHPRYHFDVXDOWLHV
the attacker may choose to retreat.
After one round of attacks, the attacking player decides to retreat, 
but the destroyer must retreat to one of the sea zones the 
attacking forces came from.
Defenseless Transports: In a sea 
battle, if the defender has only transports 
remaining and the attacker still has units 
capable of attacking, the defending 
transports are all destroyed, along with 
their cargo. You do not have to continue 
rolling dice until all the transports receive 
hits—this will speed up combats.
This also occurs if the defender has only 
transports and submerged submarines 
remaining, and the attacker has only 
air units remaining. The air units and 
submarines cannot hit each other, so the 
transports are defenseless. At this point, 
defenseless transports are all destroyed, 
along with their cargo. Attacking 
transports are never considered 
defenseless, since they have the option 
RIUHWUHDWLQJ5HPHPEHUKRZHYHUWKDW
destroying defenseless transports in 
this way still counts as combat for the 
purpose of offshore bombardment and 
similar rules.
If the attacker does not have any attacking land units left, or if the attacking ﬂ eet is eliminated, the amphibious assault is over.
Keep the attacking overland land units and seaborne land units separated on the battle board. Attacking seaborne units cannot 
retreat. Attacking overland land units and aircraft can retreat (between rounds of combat). All attacking overland land units 
must retreat together as a group. They can only retreat to where at least one of them originated. They must all retreat at the 
same time and to the same place. A retreat may happen at the conclusion of any round of combat.
Attacking air units, whether involved in the sea combat or the attack on the coastal territory, may retreat according to the normal 
rules (they land during the Noncombat Move phase). If they do so, the attacking air units must all disengage at the same time. 
Air units and overland units (if any) must retreat at the same time. 
Air Units: Each attacking air unit may participate in the sea battle or the attack on the coastal territory; it cannot do both. 
The attacking player must declare which air units are involved in each part of the attack and cannot change their assignments 
later. At the end of the amphibious assault, all aircraft remain in place; they will land during the Noncombat Move phase.
Air units defending in a territory can only ﬁ ght in that territory. They cannot participate in the sea combat.
3. General Combat
In this step, you resolve combat in each space that contains your units and enemy units. 
Combat is resolved by ﬁ ring (rolling dice) according to a standard sequence. Combat in each space takes place at the same time, 
but each affected territory or sea zone is resolved separately and completely before resolving combat in the next contested space. 
The attacker decides the order of spaces in which each combat occurs. No new units may enter as reinforcements once combat 
has begun. 
Attacking and defending units in each space are considered to ﬁ re at the same time, but for ease of play you roll dice in 
sequence: attacker ﬁ rst, then defender. 
General Combat Sequence
1. Place units on battle board 
4. Remove defender’s casualties 
2. Attacking units ﬁ re  
5. Press attack or retreat 
3. Defending units ﬁ re   
6. Conclude combat
Step 1. Place Units on 
Battle Board
The battle board has two 
sides, labeled “Attacker” 
and “Defender.” Place 
all your attacking units 
and all defending units 
from the battle onto 
their respective sides, in 
the numbered columns 
that contain those units’ 
names and silhouettes. 
The number in a unit’s 
column identiﬁ es that 
unit’s attack or defense 
value. An attacking 
infantry’s attack value 
is 1, for example, and a 
defending infantry is 2. 
In a sea battle, place any cargo (whether your own units or an ally’s) beside the transport ship that is carrying it. Cargo does 
not roll, nor can it take a hit. It is lost with the transport carrying it if that unit is destroyed.
If you are attacking into a sea zone that contains friendly units, your ally’s units are not brought onto the battle board, 
but remain out of play for this turn.
Step 2. Attacking Units Fire 
Submarines have the Surprise Strike ability. Both attacking and defending submarines ﬁ re before other combat units during a 
sea battle. (See “Surprise Strike” in Unit Proﬁ les: Submarines, pg. 30.) 
Roll one die for each attacking unit with an attack value. Roll for units with the same 
attack value at the same time. For example, roll all units with an attack value of “3” at 
the same time.
An attacking unit scores a hit if you roll its attack value or less.
After the attacking player has rolled for all attacking units, the defender chooses one unit 
for each hit scored and moves it to the casualty zone. (It will return ﬁ re in the next step 
of combat.)
Step 3. Defending Units Fire
Defending submarines will have already ﬁ red using their Surprise Strike ability 
mentioned in Step 2. All the units on the defender’s side roll one die for each unit with a 
defense value (including units in the casualty zone). Roll for units with the same defense 
value at the same time.
A defending unit scores a hit if you roll its defense value or less.
After the defender has rolled for each defending unit, the attacker chooses one unit for 
each hit scored and removes it from play, returning it to the storage tray.
Step 4. Remove Defender’s Casualties
Remove the defender’s units in the casualty zone from play, returning them to the 
storage tray.
Step 5. Press Attack or Retreat
Combat rounds (steps 1–4) continue unless one of the following two conditions occurs 
(in this order):
Condition A—Attacker and/or Defender 
Loses All Units
Once all units with combat values on one or both 
sides have been destroyed, the combat ends.
If a player has combat units remaining on the 
battle board, that player wins the combat. Players 
that have units remaining on the battle board 
return those units to the contested space on the 
game board. 
In a sea battle, if both sides have only transports 
remaining, the attacker’s transports may remain 
in the contested sea zone or retreat per the rules 
in Condition B below.
Condition B—Attacker Retreats
The attacker (never the defender) can retreat during 
this step. Move all attacking land and sea units in that 
combat on the battle board to a single adjacent friendly 
space from which at least one of the attacking units 
moved. In the case of sea units, that space must have 
been friendly at the start of the turn. All such units 
must retreat together to the same territory, regardless 
of where they came from.
Retreating air units remain in the contested space temporarily. They complete their retreat movement during the Noncombat 
Move phase using the same rules as an air unit involved in a successful battle.

===== PAGE 11 =====
20
21
Step 6. Conclude Combat
If you win a combat as the attacker in a territory and you 
have one or more surviving land units there, you take 
control of it. Otherwise, it remains in the defender’s control. 
(If all units on both sides were destroyed, the territory 
remains in the defender’s control.) Sea units cannot take 
control of a territory; they must stay at sea.
Air units cannot capture a territory. If your attack force 
has only air units remaining, you cannot occupy the 
territory you attacked, even if there are no enemy units 
remaining. Air units must return to a friendly territory 
(ﬁ ghters may also land on a friendly carrier). They do so 
during the Noncombat Move phase. Until then, they stay 
at the space where they fought.
Remove surviving land units from the battle board and place them in the newly conquered territory. Place your control 
marker on the territory. (Note, if you are playing in the 1942 scenario, place you marker on top of the original control 
marker; do not remove it). Adjust the control markers on the national production chart. Your national production increases 
by the value of the captured territory; the loser’s production decreases by the same amount. 
An antiaircraft gun or industrial complex in the captured territory remains there but now belongs to your side (see Liberating 
a Territory, below). If you capture an antiaircraft gun, you cannot move it in the Noncombat Move phase of the same turn. If 
you capture an industrial complex, you cannot mobilize new units there until your next turn. 
Liberating a Territory 
If you capture a territory that was originally controlled by another member of your side, you “liberate” the territory. You 
do not take control of it; instead, the original controller regains the territory and its income. Antiaircraft guns or industrial 
complexes in that territory revert to the original controller of the territory. 
If the original controller’s capital is in enemy hands at the end of the turn in which you would otherwise have liberated the 
territory, you capture the territory, collect income from the newly captured territory, and use any industrial complex there 
until the original controller’s capital is liberated. You also take ownership of any antiaircraft gun in that territory. 
Capturing and Liberating Capitals 
If you capture a territory containing an enemy capital (Washington, Moscow, London, Berlin, Rome, or Tokyo), follow the 
same rules as for capturing a territory. Add the captured territory’s income value to your national production. 
In addition, you collect all unspent IPCs from the original owner of the captured capital (but not subsequent power’s 
controlling that capital). For example, if Germany conquers Moscow while the Soviet Union’s player is holding 18 IPCs, 
those IPCs are immediately transferred to Germany’s player. But if the United Kingdom’s player then takes Moscow, that 
player would not collect IPCs from Germany’s player.
The original owner of the captured capital is still in the game but cannot collect income from any territories he or she still 
controls and cannot buy new units and/or research technologies until the capital is liberated. That player skips all but the 
Combat Move, Conduct Combat, and Noncombat Move phases. If that power or one on its side liberates the capital, the 
original owner can once again collect income from territories he or she controls, including territories reverting control to him 
or her. 
If a capital is liberated, the industrial complex and any antiaircraft guns in that capital territory revert ownership to the 
original owner of the capital. Territories and industrial complexes that are controlled by the newly liberated capital’s owner 
but are in the hands of friendly powers also revert ownership. Antiaircraft guns outside the newly liberated capital territory 
remain under their pre-liberation ownership.
Capturing a Victory City 
When you capture a territory containing an enemy victory city, take possession of its corresponding victory city token.
If at the end of the round after the U.S. player’s turn your side controls enough victory cities to achieve the victory condition 
you decided upon at the start of the game, your side wins.
Multinational Forces
Units on the same side can share a territory or sea zone, constituting a multinational force. Such forces can defend together, 
but they cannot attack together. (This does not mean powers can share income; only the power that controls a territory 
collects income for that territory.)
A multinational force cannot attack the same space together. Any units in a sea zone in which a battle occurs that belong to 
an ally of the attacker cannot participate in the battle in any way. Such units cannot be taken as losses in the sea combat and 
have no effect on defending submarines. Each attacking power moves and ﬁ res its own units on its own turn. 
An attacking ﬁ ghter may launch from an aircraft carrier owned by an ally, but the ally’s carrier cannot move until its 
controller’s turn. Similarly, an attacking carrier can carry an ally’s ﬁ ghter as cargo, but the ally’s ﬁ ghter cannot participate in 
an attack by that carrier. 
An attacking land unit can assault a coastal territory from an ally’s transport, but only on the attacking land unit owner’s turn. 
Multinational Defense: When a space containing a multinational force is attacked, all its units defend together. The attacker 
ﬁ res ﬁ rst as usual. If a hit is scored, the defenders mutually determine the casualty. If they cannot agree, the attacker chooses. 
Each defender rolls separately for his or her units. 
Transporting Multinational Forces: Transports belonging to a friendly power can load and ofﬂ oad your land units. This is 
a three-step process: 
1. You load your land units aboard the friendly transport on your turn. 
2. The transport’s controller moves it (or not) on that player’s turn. 
3. You ofﬂ oad your land units on your next turn. 
Phase 5: Noncombat Move 
In this phase, you can move any of your units that did not move in the Combat Move phase or participate in combat during 
your turn. This is a good time to gather your units, either to strengthen vulnerable territories or to reinforce units at the front. 
You will also land all your aircraft that participated in and survived the Conduct Combat phase.
Only aircraft and submarines may move through hostile spaces during this phase. 
Where Units Can Move 
Land Units: Land units can move into any friendly territories. They cannot move into hostile territories (not even those that 
contain no combat units but are enemy-controlled). Note, this is the only phase in which antiaircraft guns can move.
Air Units: An air unit must end its move in an eligible landing space. Bombers and ﬁ ghters may land in any territory that 
was friendly at the start of your turn.
Only ﬁ ghters may land in a sea zone with a friendly carrier present. A landing spot must be available on the carrier. 
Additionally:
s !lGHTERMAYLANDINASEAZONETHATISADJACENTTOANINDUSTRIALCOMPLEXYOUOWNIFYOUWILLBEPLACING an aircraft carrier that you previously purchased in that zone. 
s /NCEANYlGHTERLANDSONACARRIERMOVEMENTFOR"/4(UNITSENDS
s 9OUMUSTHAVEACARRIERMOVEREMAININPLACEORBEPLACEDNEWCARRIERSONLY	TOPICKUPAlGHTERTHAT would end its noncombat movement in a sea zone. You cannot deliberately move any air unit out of range 
 of a potential safe landing space. 
Aircraft that cannot move to an eligible landing space by the end of the Noncombat Move phase are destroyed. 
Neither bombers nor ﬁ ghters may land in any territory that was hostile at the start of your turn, including any territory that 
was just captured by you this turn.
Sea Units: Sea units can move through any friendly sea zone. They cannot move into or through hostile sea zones. 
Transports can move to friendly coastal territories and load or ofﬂ oad cargo, unless they loaded, moved, or ofﬂ oaded during 
the Combat Move or Conduct Combat phase. 
Aircraft carriers can move to sea zones to allow friendly ﬁ ghters to land. They must move there if they did not move in the 
Combat Move phase and the friendly sea zone is the only valid landing zone for the ﬁ ghters. An aircraft carrier must end its 
move once a ﬁ ghter has landed on it. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
22
23
Phase 6: Mobilize New Units 
Move the newly purchased units from the mobilization zone on the game board to eligible spaces you have controlled 
since the start of your turn, with the following exceptions (below). You cannot yet use industrial complexes that you 
captured this turn. 
Restrictions on Placement 
For each industrial complex, you can mobilize only as many units as the IPC income value of the territory containing 
the industrial complex. This limit includes units mobilized in sea zones adjacent to the industrial complex. For example, 
Germany can mobilize 10 units. 
Each damage marker under an industrial complex means one less new unit can enter the game at that factory.
You cannot place your new units at an industrial complex owned by a friendly power, unless that power’s capital is in 
enemy control and you have taken control of the industrial complex from an enemy power after the friendly power’s 
capital was captured. 
Place land units and bombers only in territories containing eligible industrial complexes. Land units cannot enter play 
on transports.
Place sea units only in sea zones adjacent to territories containing eligible industrial complexes. New sea units can enter 
play even in a hostile sea zone. No combat occurs because the Conduct Combat phase is over. 
Place ﬁ ghters into territories containing an industrial complex controlled by your power from the start of your turn, or 
on an aircraft carrier owned by your power in a sea zone adjacent to a territory with such an industrial complex. The 
aircraft carrier may be either a new one or an existing one already in place. You cannot place a new ﬁ ghter on a carrier 
owned by a friendly power. 
Place new industrial complexes in any territory that you have controlled since the start of your turn and that has an income 
value of at least 1. You cannot have more than one industrial complex per territory.
If you do not place some of your units the turn you purchase them, they are not lost. You can place them on one of your 
future turns during your Mobilize New Units phase.
Phase 7: Collect Income 
In this phase, you earn production income to ﬁ nance future attacks and strategies. Look up your power’s national 
production level (indicated by your control marker) on the national production chart and collect that number of IPCs from 
the bank.
If your capital is under an enemy power’s control, you cannot collect income nor can you collect bonus income. A power 
cannot lend or give IPCs to another power, even if both powers are on the same side. 
In addition, you may have reached your national objectives. A power reaching its national objectives is experiencing an 
uplifting positive effect across the board—higher morale coupled with renewed vigor. This awards your economy an extra 
boost of 5 or more IPCs per turn and is called “bonus income.”
National Objectives & Bonus Income
Note: This is an optional rule—players should decide whether or not this rule will be included in their game. 
While the goal of the game is to capture victory cities, each power also has an objective related to its historic objectives. 
These objectives, if achieved, will grant you bonus income.
The Allies, especially the United States and the United Kingdom, seemed able to meld their individual objectives into one 
common cause—the complete and unconditional surrender of the Axis. This was also the ofﬁ cial position of the Soviet 
Union, but unlike the United States and the United Kingdom, the Soviets had world communism in mind as well.
Germany had its “Lebensraum”, Japan’s was “The Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere,” and Italy’s stated objective 
was turning the Mediterranean Sea and the territories that border it into “Mare Nostrum.” 
In recognition of these known national objectives, each country that reaches its individual national objectives will receive a 
bonus sum of IPCs each turn. 
Here are the national objectives for each power and their income bonus (also shown on the back of each national setup chart): 
Axis Powers
The United States: “The Arsenal of 
Democracy”
The United States was not always 
the industrial giant that it suddenly 
became. The conversion from a 
peacetime industry to a wartime 
one was done practically overnight. 
Nonetheless, the reality of this 
historical phenomenon proved to 
be one of the undeniable strategic 
realities of World War II. 
s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control all of the following 
  territories: Western United States, 
  Central United States, and Eastern 
  United States.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control the Philippine Islands.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control France.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control at least three of the 
  following territories: Midway, 
  Wake Island, Hawaiian Islands, 
  and/or Solomon Islands.
Allies Powers
The United Kingdom: “The British 
Empire” 
At the time the war broke out, the 
United Kingdom had stretched its 
empire around the world. But the 
empire was stretched thin and was 
trying to retain its control on its old 
centers of power.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control all of the following 
  territories: Eastern Canada, 
  Western Canada, Gibraltar, Egypt, 
  Australia, and Union of South 
  Africa.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control any territory originally 
  under Japan’s control. 
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control at least one of the 
  following territories: France 
  and/or Balkans.
Soviet Union: “The Great Patriotic 
War”
In June of 1941, Germany launched 
Operation Barbarossa. German 
forces soon laid seige to Leningrad 
and stood within sight of the Kremlin. 
As Russia’s fear of foreign invasion 
grew, a security buffer of foreign 
territory became a Soviet objective.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!LLIEDPOWERS  control at least three of the 
  following territories: Norway, 
  Finland, Poland, Bulgaria/
  Romania, Czechoslovakia/
  Hungary, and/or Balkans.
 s'AIN)0#SIFNOOTHER!LLIED  forces are present in a territory 
  controlled by the Soviet Union 
  and if the Soviets control 
  Archangel.
Germany: “Lebensraum”
Living Space. Extra space was 
needed for the growth of the German 
population for a greater Germany. 
This space would be found in the East.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control all of the following 
  territories: France, Northwestern 
  Europe, Germany, 
  Czechoslovakia/Hungary, 
  Bulgaria/Romania, and Poland. 
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control at least three of the 
  following territories: Baltic States, 
  East Poland, Ukraine, Eastern 
  Ukraine, and/or Belorussia.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control at least one of the 
  following territories: Karelia 
  S.S.R. and/or Caucasus.
Japan: “The Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere”
Asia for the Asians. The stated 
objective was to create a self-
sufﬁ cient “block of Asian nations led 
by the Japanese and free of Western 
Powers.”
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control all of the following 
  territories: Manchuria, Kiangsu, 
  and French Indo-China/Thailand.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control at least four of the 
  following territories: Kwangtung, 
  East Indies, Borneo, Philippine 
  Islands, New Guinea, and/or 
  Solomon Islands.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERSCONTROL  at least one of the following 
  territories: Hawaiian Islands, 
  Australia, and/or India.
Italy: “Mare Nostrum”
Our Sea. Mussolini wanted to 
re-establish the greatness of the 
Roman Empire. This could best be 
demonstrated by controlling the 
entire Mediterranean Sea.
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control all of the following 
  territories: Italy, Balkans,  
 
  Morocco/Algeria, and Libya, 
  and no enemy surface warships   
  are in sea zones 13, 14, and 15. 
  (See Sea Units, pg. 28 for  
 
  information on surface warships.)
 s'AIN)0#SIF!XISPOWERS  control at least three of the 
  following territories: Egypt, 
  Trans-Jordan, France, and/or 
  Gibraltar.

===== PAGE 13 =====
24
25
UNIT PROFILES 
This section provides detailed information for each unit in the game. Each entry has a short description, then lists the unit’s 
cost in IPCs and its attack, defense, and move values. Each unit type also has special abilities, which are summarized below 
its statistics. The following proﬁ les do not take into account any special abilities attributed to the different units as a result of 
weapons development.
Land Units
Infantry, artillery, tanks, and antiaircraft guns can attack and/or defend only in territories. Only infantry, artillery, and tanks 
can capture hostile territories. All but industrial complexes can be carried by transports. Industrial complexes are located in 
territories but cannot move, attack, defend, or be transported. 
Infantry 
Description: Basic land units that are strong on defense.
Cost: 3 
Attack: 1 (2 when supported by artillery) 
Defense: 2 
Move: 1 
Special Abilities 
Supported by Artillery: When an infantry unit attacks along with an artillery unit, the infantry’s attack value increases from 
1 to 2. Each infantry must be matched one-for-one with a supporting artillery unit. If your infantry outnumber your artillery, 
the excess infantry units still have an attack value of 1. For example, if you attack with two artillery and ﬁ ve infantry, two of 
your infantry have an attack value of 2, and the rest, 1. Infantry are not supported by artillery on defense.  
Artillery 
Description: Provides extra punch and supports infantry attacks.
Cost: 4 
Attack: 2 
Defense: 2 
Move: 1 
Special Abilities 
Support Infantry: When an infantry unit attacks along with an artillery unit, the infantry’s attack value increases from 1 to 2. 
Each infantry must be matched one-for-one with a supporting artillery unit. Artillery does not support infantry on defense.  
Tanks 
Description: Heavy-hitting and fast-moving units. 
Cost: 5 
Attack: 3 
Defense: 3 
Move: 2 
Special Abilities 
Blitz: Tanks can “blitz” by moving through an unoccupied hostile territory as the ﬁ rst part of a two-space move that can 
end in a friendly or hostile territory. This complete move must occur during the Combat Move phase. By blitzing, the tank 
establishes control of the ﬁ rst territory before it moves to the next. The second territory can be friendly or hostile, or even the 
territory the tank came from. A tank that encounters enemy units in the ﬁ rst territory it enters must stop there, even if the unit 
is an antiaircraft gun or industrial complex. 
Antiaircraft Guns 
Description: These units represent extensive antiaircraft defenses.
Cost: 6 
Attack: —
Defense: 1
Move: 1 (noncombat only) 
Special Abilities 
Limited Move: An antiaircraft gun cannot move during the Combat Move phase (other than being carried on a transport if the 
antiaircraft gun was loaded on a prior turn). 
Shoot Down Air Units: An antiaircraft gun may only ﬁ re at an air unit when that unit attacks the territory containing that 
antiaircraft gun. Antiaircraft guns ﬁ re only during the ﬁ rst round of combat and are then returned to the game board. Roll 
one die for each air unit doing so (if there is more than one antiaircraft gun in a territory, only one can ﬁ re, even if the 
others are controlled by different powers). On a roll of 1, that air unit is destroyed and immediately removed from the 
game. If all the aircraft are the same, ﬁ ghters or bombers, there is no need to differentiate them. However, if there is a mix 
of ﬁ ghters and bombers, you must assign speciﬁ c dice rolls to speciﬁ c aircraft by indicating which aircraft is being rolled 
for and rolling the die. A roll of 1 destroys the speciﬁ ed aircraft. This special attack is made immediately before normal 
combat occurs in the territory containing the antiaircraft gun.
Subject to Capture: If a territory is captured, any antiaircraft guns there are also captured. Their new owner is the player 
controlling the territory at the end of that turn. They can be used by their new owner in future combat. Antiaircraft guns are 
never destroyed, except when a transport carrying one is sunk. If you move an antiaircraft gun into a territory controlled by a 
friendly power, place one of your control markers under it. 
At the end of the United States player’s turn, check to see if either side has won the game based on the victory city condition 
you are playing to.
 Default 
“Surrender with Honor” 
15
 Option 1 
“Projection” 
13
 Option 2 
“Total War” 
18
If your side controls enough victory cities to achieve the preset victory condition, you all win the war. 
Otherwise, start a new turn and continue the conﬂ ict. 
WINNING THE GAME

===== PAGE 14 =====
26
27
Industrial Complexes 
Description: These factories are a point of entry for newly produced units.
Cost: 15 
Attack: N/A
Defense: N/A
Move: Cannot move.
Special Abilities 
Cannot Attack, Defend, or Move: An industrial complex cannot attack, defend, or move. It cannot be transported. It is not 
placed on the battle board. 
Mobilization Sites: You may mobilize units only in territories containing industrial complexes you have controlled since the 
start of your turn. You can mobilize only a number of units up to the income value of the territory containing the industrial 
complex (for example, an industrial complex built in Eastern Canada may mobilize up to three units per turn). You can place 
new industrial complexes in any territory that you have controlled since the start of your turn and that has an income value of 
at least 1. There cannot be more than one industrial complex per territory. 
Damaged Factories (Industrial Complexes): Bombers and rockets can damage industrial complexes directly. Damage markers 
are placed under the targeted industrial complex. For each damage marker that is under a given industrial complex, one less 
unit can be mobilized by that factory. Total damage to an industrial complex cannot exceed twice the IPC value of the territory 
on which the factory is located. Industrial complexes are never destroyed. They can be heavily damaged, however, and can be 
damaged to the point where they have at least as many damage markers as they have production ability. In this case, no new 
units can enter the game through that factory until it is repaired.
Damage markers can be removed at a cost of 1 IPC each. These repairs are paid for (and the damage markers are removed) 
during the Purchase Units phase of the turn. 
Usable by Invading Forces: If a territory is captured, an industrial complex there is also captured. The capturing player can 
use it on the turn after it is captured, but any existing damage markers remain under the industrial complex. 
You cannot place your new units at an industrial complex owned by a friendly power, unless that power’s capital is in enemy 
hands. Even if you liberate a territory with an industrial complex in it, you cannot use the complex; the original controller 
can use it on his or her next turn.
Air Units
Fighters and bombers can attack and defend in territories. Both can attack in sea zones. Fighters stationed on carriers can 
defend in sea zones. Both can land only in friendly territories and ﬁ ghters can land on friendly aircraft carriers. Your air 
units cannot land in territories you just captured, whether they were involved in the combat or not. Air units can move 
through hostile territories and sea zones as if they were friendly. However, they are exposed to antiaircraft ﬁ re during combat 
whenever they attack a hostile territory that contains an antiaircraft gun. 
To determine range, count each space your air unit enters “after takeoff.” When moving over water from a coastal territory 
or an island group, count the ﬁ rst sea zone entered as one space. When ﬂ ying to an island group, count the surrounding sea 
zone and the island group itself as one space each. (An island is considered a territory within a sea zone; air units based on 
an island cannot defend the surrounding sea zone.) When moving a ﬁ ghter from a carrier, do not count the carrier’s sea zone 
as the ﬁ rst space—your ﬁ ghter is in that sea zone. To participate in combat, a ﬁ ghter must take off from its carrier before the 
carrier moves, otherwise it is cargo.
You cannot send air units on “suicide runs,” deliberately moving them into combat with no place to land afterward. If there 
is any question about whether an attack is a “suicide run,” then in the Combat Move phase, you must declare, prior to rolling 
any battles, some possible way (however remote the possibility is) for all your attacking air units to land safely that turn. 
This could include a combination of combat moves. It could also include noncombat moves by a carrier. If it does include 
noncombat moves by a carrier, then the carrier cannot move in the Combat Move phase. 
In order to demonstrate that an air unit MAY have a safe landing zone, you may assume that all of your attacking rolls will 
be hits, and all defending rolls will be misses. You cannot, however, use a planned retreat of any carrier to demonstrate a 
possible safe landing zone for any ﬁ ghter. 
If you declared that a carrier will move during the Noncombat Move phase to provide a safe landing zone for a ﬁ ghter moved 
in the Combat Move phase, you must follow through and move the carrier to its planned location in the Noncombat Move 
phase unless the ﬁ ghter has landed safely elsewhere or has been destroyed before then. 
Fighters
Description: These basic air units have strong defense and considerable range.
Cost: 10 
Attack: 3 
Defense: 4 
Move: 4
Special Abilities
Land on Aircraft Carriers: Fighters can be carried by aircraft carriers. Up to two ﬁ ghters can be on a friendly aircraft carrier 
at a time. A ﬁ ghter must be launched from the carrier’s initial position to participate in combat this turn. However, it may 
land on a carrier in the Noncombat Move phase (even if retreating) or during any other noncombat move. (A ﬁ ghter cannot 
land on a carrier during the carrier’s movement.) Your aircraft carrier can move to a sea zone where one of your ﬁ ghters has 
ended its move (and in fact, it must do so if it is able) but cannot move any farther that turn. 
A ﬁ ghter based on a defending carrier that is destroyed in combat must try to land. It must land on a different friendly carrier 
in the same sea zone, move one space to a friendly territory or aircraft carrier, or be destroyed. This movement occurs after 
all of the attacker’s combats have been resolved and before the attacker’s Noncombat Move phase begins. 
Each of your ﬁ ghters based on your attacking carrier launches before combat (even if it is not participating in combat) and 
can retreat to a friendly territory or carrier within range if it survives combat. If any ﬁ ghter is not in an eligible landing space 
by the end of the Noncombat Move phase, it is destroyed. (Note that an eligible landing space may include a sea zone in 
which a new carrier will be placed in the Mobilize New Units phase, as long as there is a landing space available on it.) 
Bombers
Description: These aircraft are major offensive weapons with long-range capabilities.
Cost: 12 
Attack: 4 
Defense: 1 
Move: 6 
Special Abilities 
Strategic Bombing Raids: A bomber can make an economic attack against an enemy industrial complex. During the strategic 
bombing raid step of the Conduct Combat phase, bombers that survive any antiaircraft ﬁ re may attack the industrial complex. 
Roll one die for each surviving bomber. The bombers will cause a number of points of damage to the industrial complex 
equal to the total rolled on the dice. The maximum total damage strategic bombing raids can inﬂ ict on one industrial complex 
is twice the territory’s IPC value. 

===== PAGE 15 =====
28
29
Sea Units
Battleships, aircraft carriers, cruisers, destroyers, transports, and submarines move, attack, and defend in sea zones. They 
cannot move into territories. For the sake of these rules, the following are surface warships: battleships, carriers, cruisers, and 
destroyers. Transports are not part of the group called warships. Submarines are warships, but they are not surface warships.   
All sea units can move up to two friendly sea zones. They cannot move into or through hostile sea zones. If enemy units other 
than submarines and transports occupy a sea zone, the sea zone is hostile and your sea units end their movement and enter 
combat. Submarines are an exception: They can pass through a hostile sea zone without stopping, unless there is an enemy 
destroyer present (see Destroyers, pg. 29). 
Some sea units can carry other units. Transports can carry only land units. Aircraft carriers can carry up to two ﬁ ghters. 
Battleships
Description: These units are the strongest and most durable warships.
Cost: 20
Attack: 4
Defense: 4 
Move: 2 
Special Abilities 
Two Hits to Destroy: A battleship requires two hits to destroy. If a battleship is hit, even by a submarine’s Surprise Strike,
turn it on its side to mark its damaged status but do not move it to the casualty zone of the battle board unless it takes a 
second hit in the same combat. If a battleship survives a combat having taken one hit, return it upright to the game board. 
Offshore Bombardment: Your battleships and cruisers can conduct offshore bombardment during an amphibious assault. 
These battleships and cruisers must be in the same sea zone as the ofﬂ oading transport before they can conduct this 
bombardment. Each battleship and cruiser ﬁ res against enemy land units in the territory being attacked prior to land combat. 
Battleships and cruisers cannot conduct offshore bombardment if they were involved in a sea combat prior to the amphibious 
assault and cannot conduct more than one bombardment per turn. The number of battleships and cruisers that can bombard 
during an amphibious assault is limited to one ship per land unit being ofﬂ oaded from the transports in that coastal territory. 
Aircraft Carriers 
Description: These are huge warships capable of carrying ﬁ ghter aircraft. 
Cost: 14 
Attack: 1 
Defense: 2
Move: 2 
Special Abilities
Carry Fighters: An aircraft carrier can carry up to two ﬁ ghters, including those belonging to friendly powers. Fighters from 
friendly powers can take off from and land on your carriers, but only during that power’s turn. Any ﬁ ghters belonging to the 
aircraft carrier owner move independently of the carrier. These ﬁ ghters can make a combat move from the carrier’s original 
sea zone, or they can remain in the original sea zone until the Noncombat Move phase. Fighters belonging to friendly powers 
on attacking carriers are always treated as cargo, since it is not their turn. Your aircraft carrier can move to or remain in a sea 
zone where one of your ﬁ ghters will end its noncombat move (and must do so if it is able).
Fighter Defense: Whenever a carrier is attacked, its ﬁ ghters (even those belonging to friendly powers) are considered to be 
defending in the air and can be chosen as casualties rather than the carrier. (However, a ﬁ ghter cannot be chosen as a casualty 
from a submarine hit, because submarines can attack only sea units.)
Cruisers
Description: These units are powerful yet inexpensive warships.   
Costs: 12 
Attack: 3 
Defense: 3 
Move: 2 
Special Abilities
Offshore Bombardment: Your battleships and cruisers can conduct offshore bombardment during an amphibious assault. 
These battleships and cruisers must be in the same sea zone as the ofﬂ oading transport before they can conduct this 
bombardment. Each battleship and cruiser ﬁ res against enemy land units in the territory being attacked prior to land combat. 
Battleships and cruisers cannot conduct offshore bombardment if they were involved in a sea combat prior to the amphibious 
assault and cannot conduct more than one bombardment per turn. The number of battleships and cruisers that can bombard 
during an amphibious assault is limited to one ship per land unit being ofﬂ oaded from the transports in that coastal territory.
Destroyers
Description: These units are effective warships with strong anti-submarine capabilities. 
Costs: 8
Attack: 2 
Defense: 2
Move: 2 
Special Abilities
Anti-sub Vessel: If a destroyer is in the same space as one or more enemy submarines, it cancels the Submersible, Surprise 
Strike, and Sub Movement special powers of those submarines (but not any powers gained through research & development). 
Additionally, your aircraft may attack enemy submarines.

===== PAGE 16 =====
30
31
Submarines
Description: These units are submersible warships with unique capabilities.
Cost: 6
Attack: 2
Defense: 1
Move: 2 
Special Abilities 
Submersible: Anytime a submarine would otherwise roll the die to attack or defend, it can submerge instead. This 
removes it from the combat—it can no longer attack or take hits in that combat. Whenever a round of combat starts and a 
submarine is in combat with only aircraft, it can submerge (before aircraft ﬁ re). 
Surprise Strike: Submarines make their attack roll before any other units, and players must remove casualties hit by 
submarines before those units get a chance to make an attack or defense roll. This special attack only happens once at the 
start of the attacking units ﬁ re step. Then, the combat sequence continues normally. If both players have submarines, all the 
submarines get to ﬁ re a surprise strike before taking casualties. Any hits made during this attack that do not destroy units 
(such as battleships) remain in effect until the end of the combat. 
How submarines conduct combat: If there is at least one defending destroyer on the battle board, attacking 
submarines cannot make a Surprise Strike. They will participate in combat during the attacking units ﬁ re step 
of the General Combat sequence. Otherwise, each attacking submarine may submerge or ﬁ re. Remove each 
submerging submarine from the battle board and place it on the game board in the contested sea zone. Roll 
one die for each remaining attacking submarine.
After the attacking player has rolled for all attacking submarines, the defender chooses one sea unit 
(submarines cannot hit air units) for each hit scored and moves it to the casualty zone. 
If there is at least one attacking destroyer on the battle board, defending submarines will participate in combat 
during the defending units ﬁ re step of the General Combat sequence. Otherwise, each defending submarine 
may submerge or ﬁ re. Remove each submerging submarine from the battle board and place it on the game 
board in the contested sea zone. Roll one die for each remaining defending submarine.
After the defending player has rolled for all defending submarines, the attacker chooses one sea unit 
(submarines cannot hit air units) for each hit scored and removes it from play.
Finally, remove the defender’s units in the casualty zone from play. 
Sub Movement: Units moving into a sea zone containing an enemy submarine ignore that submarine for purposes of 
movement. Also, submarines treat hostile sea zones as if they were friendly for purposes of movement. However, if 
a submarine enters a sea zone containing an enemy destroyer, its movement ends immediately. This “stealth” ability 
of submarines also allows enemy ships to ignore their presence. Any sea zone that contains only enemy submarines 
does not stop the movement of a sea unit. Sea units ending their combat movement in a sea zone containing only 
enemy submarines may choose to attack them or not.  Sea units may also end their noncombat movement in a sea zone 
containing only enemy submarines. 
Cannot Attack Air Units: When attacking or defending, submarines cannot hit air units.
Transports 
Description: Can transport land units across water. 
Cost: 7 
Attack: 0 
Defense: 0 
Move: 2 
Special Abilities
No Combat Value: Even though a transport can attack or defend, either alone or with other units, it has a combat value of 
0. This means that a transport cannot ﬁ re in the attacking unit’s or the defending unit’s ﬁ re steps.
This lack of combat capability also allows enemy ships to ignore the presence of transports. Any sea zone that contains 
only enemy transports does not stop the movement of a sea unit. Air or sea units (other than transports) ending their 
combat movement in a sea zone containing only enemy transports automatically destroy those transports. This counts as 
a sea combat for those sea units. Sea units may also end their noncombat movement in a sea zone containing only enemy 
transports. 
Chosen Last: Transports may only be chosen as a casualty if there are no other eligible units. Normally this will occur 
when only transports are left, but it may also occur under other circumstances. For example, ﬁ ghters attacking transports 
and submerged submarines will hit the transports because they cannot hit the submarines.
Carry Land Units: A transport may carry land units belonging to you or to friendly powers. Its capacity is any one land 
unit, plus one additional infantry. Thus, a full transport may carry a tank and an infantry, an artillery and an infantry, an 
antiaircraft gun and an infantry, or two infantry. A transport cannot carry an industrial complex. Land units on a transport 
are cargo; they cannot attack or defend while at sea and are destroyed if their transport is destroyed. 
Land units belonging to friendly powers must load on their controller’s turn, be carried on your turn, and ofﬂ oad on a later 
turn of their controller. 
Loading onto and/or ofﬂ oading from a transport counts as a land unit’s entire move; it cannot move before loading or after 
ofﬂ oading. Place the land units alongside the transport in the sea zone. If the transport moves in the Noncombat Move 
phase, any number of units aboard may ofﬂ oad into a single friendly territory. 
Loading and Ofﬂ oading: A transport can load cargo in friendly sea zones before, during, and after it moves. A transport 
can pick up cargo, move one sea zone, pick up more cargo, move one more sea zone, and ofﬂ oad the cargo at the end of 
its movement. It may also remain at sea with the cargo still aboard (but only if the cargo remaining aboard was loaded in a 
previous turn or was loaded this turn in the Noncombat Move phase). 
Whenever a transport ofﬂ oads, it cannot move again that turn. If a transport retreats, it cannot ofﬂ oad that turn. A transport 
cannot ofﬂ oad in two territories during a single turn, nor can it ofﬂ oad cargo onto another transport. A transport cannot 
load or ofﬂ oad while in a hostile sea zone. Remember that hostile sea zones contain enemy units, but that for purposes of 
determining the status of a sea zone, submarines and transports are ignored.
A transport can load and ofﬂ oad units without moving from the friendly sea zone it is in (this is known as “bridging”). 
Each such transport is still limited to its cargo capacity. It can ofﬂ oad in only one territory, and once it ofﬂ oads, it cannot 
move, load, or ofﬂ oad again that turn.
Amphibious Assaults: A transport can take part in an amphibious assault step of the Conduct Combat phase. That is the 
only time a transport can ofﬂ oad into a hostile territory.
During an amphibious assault, a transport must either ofﬂ oad all units that were loaded during the Combat Move phase or 
retreat during sea combat. It may also ofﬂ oad any number of units owned by the transport’s power that already were on 
board at the start of the turn.
